Only some can persevere and achieve the American Dream. In Lorraine Hansberry's play A   
Raisin in the Sun, the Younger family members try to achieve their different interpretations of the American Dream. They all persevere through societal obstacles and mistakes that they make. This is especially true for Walter, an ambitious father, who dreams of becoming a successful business owner and being able to support his family more. He pushes through mistakes he makes as well as societal barriers, never giving up. Beneatha, his sister, like him, breaks through societal barriers and is close to becoming a doctor by the end of the play. She dreams of becoming a doctor and helping other people. Even Mama, their mother, perseveres through any obstacle thrown her way. In the play, she works hard to make sure that her children are given many opportunities to be able to do whatever they might want. She also dreams of being able to live the rest of her life as a typical grandmother. The mother in Langston Hughes' poem "Mother to Son" is much like this. She describes the importance of perseverance when achieving a goal and tells her son to always try to move forward. The two mothers, Walter, and Beneatha all demonstrate how never giving up can help realise one's goals. Through the perseverance of each Younger family member and further emphasized by the metaphor in Hughes' poem, Lorraine Hansberry develops the theme of accomplishing the American Dream.

Walter Lee Younger interprets the American Dream to mean having a good job that has good pay. He goes about trying to do this by attempting to start a liquor store. The young father hopes to be able to support his family better through this business. However, financial barriers restrict him from being able to begin. In order to obtain the large sum of money needed, he looks to Mama for help. After persistent requests and persuading her to give a portion of her insurance money to him, he tries to acquire a liquor license. Then, instead of obtaining the license the formal and more legal way, Walter and his partners use a roundabout method. This ends up losing all of the money Mama gave to Walter due to one of his partners stealing all of the money and running off. Despite having pushed through obstacles up until this point, Walter wants to give up. But, Mama helps guide Walter into continuing on and moving forward. This theme of never giving up, even when times are hard, is also greatly expressed in Langston Hughes' poem "Mother to Son": "So boy, don't you turn back. / Don't you set down on the steps / 'Cause you finds it's kinder hard. / Don't you fall now— / for I'se still goin', honey / I'se still climbin' " (lines 14-19). Although Walter faces many obstacles and regression towards his goal of attempting to start a liquor store, his never ending perseverance enables him to go after his version of the American Dream. 

Beneatha Younger dreams of becoming a doctor and being able to help others. She believes that the American Dream means being able to have the freedom to be whatever you want. Throughout her life, she is always trying new activities, whether it's horseback riding or learning to play the guitar. Although people might say that she is wasting money or should stick to one thing, she ignores them and just keeps trying to find what she likes. Beneatha deals with sexism and doubt towards her and her dream in the same way, ignoring and blocking out negativeness. Oftentimes, because Beneatha is a girl, her dream of becoming a doctor is not taken seriously. Additionally, people in her own family, like Walter, question why she even wants to become a doctor and have doubts on whether she can actually succeed or not. Her response to this is to keep on going and have her determination guide her as she refuses to give up on accomplishing her goal. In A Raisin in the Sun, Beneatha shows her defiance when she declares, "...George, for one, still thinks that's pretty funny. I couldn't be bothered with that. I am going to be a doctor and everybody around here better understand that\!" (Hansberry 50). Through Beneatha's unwavering determination and defiance when it comes to people doubting her, she is able to have the freedom to be whatever she wants and try to achieve her interpretation of the American Dream. 

By the end of Lorraine Hansberry's play A Raisin in the Sun, Mama has achieved her dream of being able to give her family more freedom, opportunities, and support as they try to achieve their goals. She also successfully accomplishes her interpretation of the American Dream, successfully giving more and better opportunities and lives to the next generations. Mama and her late husband worked hard to give their children the best lives they could. Mama raised Walter and Beneatha well so that they could have better lives and opportunities than she did. She further gives to the next generations by using her insurance money to buy the family a new home. This new home allows the Younger family to be able to live in a better neighborhood, have more space, more opportunities, give Travis a better education, and live better lives overall. Mama's financial support towards her children is also clearly evident when she says, "Monday morning I want you to take this money and take three thousand dollars and put it in a  savings account for Beneatha's medical schooling. The rest you put into a checking account—with your name on it" (Hansberry 107). She tries her best to support Walter in his journey to starting his liquor business by giving him money and teaching him to be a man. Her support towards Beneatha is just as much as she also tries to help pay for some of Beneatha's medical school. Mama's moral support is similar to the moral support the mother in Langston Hughes' poem "Mother to Son," uses, both talking to their children about never giving up: "Well, son, I'll tell you: / Life for me ain't been no crystal chair…But all the time / I'se been a-climbin' on…So boy, don't turn your back…For I'se still goin', honey" (lines 1-18). Ultimately, because Mama's determination, hard work, and perseverance open up numerous opportunities, improves the lives, and supports the generations ahead of her, she accomplishes her understanding of the American Dream.
